Titel: School-based healthy eating interventions for adolescents aged 10-19 years: an umbrella review.
Autoren: Samad N, Bearne L, Noor FM, Akter F, Parmar D
Veröffentlichungsdatum: 2024 Oct 14

Abstract:
1. Int J Behav Nutr Phys Act. 2024 Oct 14;21(1):117. doi: 
10.1186/s12966-024-01668-6.

School-based healthy eating interventions for adolescents aged 10-19 years: an 
umbrella review.

Samad N(1), Bearne L(2)(3), Noor FM(4), Akter F(4), Parmar D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health Sciences, School of Life Course and 
Population Sciences, King's College London, London, UK. 
Nandeeta.samad@kcl.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Population Health Sciences, School of Life Course and 
Population Sciences, King's College London, London, UK.
(3)Population Health Research Institute, St George's, University of London, 
London, UK.
(4)James P Grant School of Public Health, BRAC University, Dhaka, Bangladesh.

BACKGROUND: The benefits of healthy eating are well known, yet adolescent diet 
is often poor. School based interventions offer a promising option to promote 
healthy eating, however, evidence is unclear.
AIM: This umbrella review synthesised the current evidence on school-based 
interventions for healthy eating in adolescents (10-19 years old).
METHODS: Using Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) umbrella review guidelines, a 
systematic search was conducted on 11 electronic databases (PubMed, CINHAL, 
EMBASE, Science Direct, PsycINFO, MEDLINE, Scopus, ERIC, Web of Science, 
Cochrane Register of Systemic Review and JBI Evidence Synthesis) to identify 
reviews published between January 2000 and December 2023. Methodological quality 
was assessed using JBI critical appraisal tool. A narrative synthesis was 
conducted informed by the World Health Organisation's Health Promoting School 
(HPS) framework that categorises school-based interventions into three 
components i.e., health education, school environment changes, and family and 
community involvement.
RESULTS: Seventeen reviews were identified (including 347 unique primary 
studies) that were published between 2008 and 2023. 87% of the reviews were 
based on interventions in high- income countries, limiting applicability to low- 
and middle-income countries. Fourteen reviews were rated as high, two as 
moderate, and one was rated as low methodological quality. Evidence from 71% of 
the reviews (n = 14 reviews, 13 = high methodological quality) found that 
multi-component interventions (i.e., interventions incorporating more than two 
components of the HPS framework) improved adolescents' knowledge and behaviour 
concerning healthy eating. At the individual level, tech-driven healthy eating 
curricula effectively improved eating behaviours of adolescents. These 
individual-level interventions proved to be more effective and sustainable when 
supported by system-level changes, such as modifying school environments 
including increased availability of healthy foods and involving parents to 
promote healthy eating for adolescents. However, limited evidence from only 
three reviews suggests mixed feasibility for technology-based interventions and 
lower feasibility for multi-component interventions. The lack of information on 
stakeholder involvement in intervention design is another critical evidence gap.
CONCLUSION: School-based multi-component healthy eating interventions that 
combine individual-level interventions with system-level changes are effective 
in promoting healthy eating behaviours among adolescents. Future reviews should 
assess the effectiveness of participatory approaches in intervention design, 
feasibility and scale-up studies, and analysing evidence from low- and 
middle-income countries.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12966-024-01668-6
PMCID: PMC11472496
PMID: 39402562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.