Titel: Health Care Personnel Workdays Lost and Direct Health Care Salary Costs Incurred due to COVID-19 Infection in the Age of Widespread Vaccine Availability.
Autoren: Townsend L, Gillespie P, McGrath J, Kenny C, PRECISE Study Steering Group, Bergin C, Fleming C
Veröffentlichungsdatum: 2024 Oct 16

Abstract:
1. J Infect Dis. 2024 Oct 16;230(4):e872-e880. doi: 10.1093/infdis/jiae223.

Health Care Personnel Workdays Lost and Direct Health Care Salary Costs Incurred 
due to COVID-19 Infection in the Age of Widespread Vaccine Availability.

Townsend L(1)(2), Gillespie P(3)(4), McGrath J(1), Kenny C(5); PRECISE Study 
Steering Group; Bergin C(1)(2), Fleming C(5).

Collaborators: Doherty L, Domegan L, Conlon N, Martin G, de Gascun C, Gallagher 
J, Keogan M, Noonan N, O'Farrelly C, Byrne D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, St James's Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(3)Health Economics and Policy Analysis Centre, Institute for Lifecourse and 
Society, University of Galway, Galway, Ireland.
(4)CÚRAM, Science Foundation Ireland Research Centre for Medical Devices, 
University of Galway, Galway, Ireland.
(5)Department of Infectious Diseases, University Hospital Galway, Galway, 
Ireland.

BACKGROUND: Vaccination against coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) can mitigate 
the burden of health care worker (HCW) infection. We investigate the burden of 
HCW illness and its associated direct health care personnel costs in the setting 
of widespread vaccine availability and explore factors influencing these 
outcomes.
METHODS: This multicenter prospective study followed HCWs over an 8-month period 
from January to August 2023. Data recorded included incident COVID-19 infection, 
symptom burden, workdays missed, and vaccine history. Workdays lost due to 
illness were used to calculate direct health care personnel costs due to 
COVID-19 infection. Univariate analysis and multivariable regression 
investigated the factors associated with workdays lost and direct health care 
personnel.
RESULTS: In total, 1218 participants were enrolled and followed for 8 months, 
with 266 incidents of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 
(SARS-CoV-2) infection, 1191 workdays lost, and health care personnel costs of 
€397 974. Multivariable regression revealed that workdays lost were associated 
with incomplete primary COVID-19 vaccination course. Being unvaccinated, older 
age, and male were associated with increased health care personnel costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Health care workdays lost remain a significant issue and are 
associated with health care system burden despite vaccine availability. These 
can be mitigated via targeted implementation of vaccine programs. Seasonal 
variation in health care workdays lost should inform workforce planning to 
accommodate surge periods.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Infectious Diseases Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/jiae223
PMID: 38771075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential conflicts of interest. All authors: No 
reported conflicts. All authors have submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of 
Potential Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts that the editors consider relevant to 
the content of the manuscript have been disclosed.