Titel: Cognitive flexibility predicts attitudes towards vaccination: evidence from a New Zealand sample.
Autoren: Gomes-Ng S, Wood JK, Cowie S
Veröffentlichungsdatum: 2024 Oct 14

Abstract:
1. BMC Psychol. 2024 Oct 14;12(1):550. doi: 10.1186/s40359-024-02048-2.

Cognitive flexibility predicts attitudes towards vaccination: evidence from a 
New Zealand sample.

Gomes-Ng S(1)(2), Wood JK(3), Cowie S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Auckland University of Technology, Auckland, New 
Zealand. stef.gomes-ng@aut.ac.nz.
(2)School of Psychology, The University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. 
stef.gomes-ng@aut.ac.nz.
(3)Department of Psychology, Auckland University of Technology, Auckland, New 
Zealand.
(4)School of Psychology, The University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: Vaccine hesitancy (the reluctance or refusal to vaccinate) poses a 
significant threat to public health worldwide, with declining vaccination 
coverage resulting in the resurgence of vaccine-preventable diseases (e.g., 
measles) in recent years. Despite efforts to combat vaccine hesitancy through 
information-based campaigns and other interventions, vaccine-hesitant attitudes 
persist. Given that such interventions likely expose individuals to information 
that conflicts with their own viewpoints about vaccination, cognitive 
flexibility - the ability to adapt one's thoughts, attitudes, beliefs, or 
behavior in response to changing information or environmental demands - may play 
a role in vaccine hesitancy.
METHODS: The current study investigated the relationship between cognitive 
flexibility and attitudes towards vaccination in a sample of New Zealand 
residents (N = 601). Cognitive flexibility was measured using perseverative 
responses in the Wisconsin Card-Sorting Task, and vaccination attitudes were 
measured using an adapted version of the Multidimensional Vaccine Hesitancy 
Scale (MVHS). Linear regression was used with MVHS scores as the dependent 
variable and cognitive flexibility and sociodemographic variables (age, gender, 
ethnicity, education level, religion) as predictors.
RESULTS: Cognitive flexibility predicted personal barriers to vaccination 
(e.g.," vaccines go against my personal beliefs"), with participants with lower 
levels of cognitive flexibility reporting greater personal barriers. In 
contrast, there was no significant relationship between cognitive flexibility 
and external barriers to vaccination (e.g., "vaccines cost too much"). 
Additionally, religious participants reported overall higher levels of vaccine 
hesitancy than non-religious participants.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings join others demonstrating that individual 
differences in cognitive style are associated with attitudes towards 
vaccination, and tentatively suggest that interventions aiming to reduce vaccine 
hesitancy may be more effective if combined with techniques to increase 
cognitive flexibility. To be sure, future work is needed to test the causal 
relationship between cognitive flexibility and attitudes towards vaccination.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40359-024-02048-2
PMCID: PMC11472431
PMID: 39402611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.