Titel: Psychological resilience and suicidality in the general population: A cross-sectional study based on data from the National Mental Health Survey of Korea 2021.
Autoren: Lee SH, Kim J, Han C
Veröffentlichungsdatum: 2024 Oct 15

Abstract:
1. J Affect Disord. 2024 Oct 15;363:15-25. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2024.07.088. Epub 
2024 Jul 22.

Psychological resilience and suicidality in the general population: A 
cross-sectional study based on data from the National Mental Health Survey of 
Korea 2021.

Lee SH(1), Kim J(2), Han C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Korea University, Guro Hospital, College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Korea University, Guro Hospital, College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: hancs@korea.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: The relationship between suicidality and resilience is underexplored 
among the general population. This study aimed to explore the relationship 
between lifetime, one-year, and one-month prevalence of suicidality (ideation, 
plan, attempt) and resilience in the general population.
METHODS: Data on suicidality, resilience, prevalence of major mental disorders, 
and other key psychological factors were collected from the National Mental 
Health Survey of Korea 2021. Interviewees comprised 5511 South Koreans aged 
18-79 years. The contribution of resilience to suicidality was evaluated using 
Rao-Scot logistic regression, adjusting for possible confounders such as mental 
disorder prevalence and demographic and psychological characteristics.
RESULTS: Significantly lower resilience levels were noted among participants who 
reported lifetime, one-year, and one-month suicidal ideation, plan, or attempts. 
High resilience levels predicted no suicidal ideation, plans, and attempts in 
the lifetime, and no suicidal ideation and plans in the one-year and one-month 
time frames.
LIMITATIONS: First, this study's cross-sectional design has limitations for 
ascertaining a causal relationship between resilience and suicidality. Second, 
because the number of participants who had attempted suicide in the past year 
and reported suicidal thoughts/attempts in the past month was small, there were 
limitations in the analysis of suicidality in these time frames. Third, it was 
difficult to rule out the mediating effects of personality and temperament on 
the relationship between resilience and suicidality.
CONCLUSIONS: High resilience levels predicted lower lifetime and current 
suicidal ideation and suicidal planning in the general population. This study 
shows that psychological resilience is an important factor in evaluating an 
individual's current suicidality.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2024.07.088
PMID: 39047946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.