Titel: Protecting children and adults with primary antibody deficiencies against common and emergent pathogens and non-infectious complications.
Autoren: Neth O, Mahlaoui N, Cunningham-Rundles C
Veröffentlichungsdatum: 2024 Oct 16

Abstract:
1. Clin Exp Immunol. 2024 Oct 16;218(2):136-150. doi: 10.1093/cei/uxae059.

Protecting children and adults with primary antibody deficiencies against common 
and emergent pathogens and non-infectious complications.

Neth O(1), Mahlaoui N(2)(3), Cunningham-Rundles C(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Rheumatology and Immunology, University 
Hospital Virgen del Rocío, Institute of Biomedicine of Seville (IBiS), Sevilla, 
Spain.
(2)French National Reference Center for Primary Immunodeficiencies (CEREDIH), 
Necker-Enfants Malades University Hospital, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de 
Paris (APHP), Paris, France.
(3)Pediatric Immuno-Hematology and Rheumatology Unit, Necker-Enfants Malades 
University Hospital, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris (APHP), Paris, 
France.
(4)Department of Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount-Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount-Sinai, New York, 
NY, USA.

Prevention and treatment of infections are primary goals of treatment of 
children and adults with primary immune deficiencies due to decreased antibody 
production. Approaches to these goals include immunoglobulin replacement 
therapy, vaccination, and prophylactic treatment with antimicrobials. In this 
review, the infectious and non-infectious complications of antibody deficiencies 
will be discussed along with the limited number of studies that support the 
effective use of the available therapies and to drive the development of new 
therapies. Some illustrative case studies will be presented and the outlook for 
additional controlled clinical trials and potential for therapies driven by the 
underlying disease genetics will be considered.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Society for Immunology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, 
please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for 
reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service 
via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information 
please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cei/uxae059
PMID: 39011978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]