Titel: Referral pathway and competency profiles of primary care physiotherapists and kinesiologists for physical activity interventions for diabetes: a modified Delphi study.
Autoren: Proctor C, Brown CL
Veröffentlichungsdatum: 2024 Oct 15

Abstract:
1. BMC Prim Care. 2024 Oct 15;25(1):368. doi: 10.1186/s12875-024-02611-1.

Referral pathway and competency profiles of primary care physiotherapists and 
kinesiologists for physical activity interventions for diabetes: a modified 
Delphi study.

Proctor C(1), Brown CL(2).

Author information:
(1)The College of Rehabilitation Sciences, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada. carly.proctor@umanitoba.ca.
(2)The College of Rehabilitation Sciences, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada.

BACKGROUND: High quality diabetes care is an essential service in primary care 
settings since the prevalence and associated complications of diabetes is 
increasing. Physical activity is effective for the prevention and management of 
diabetes yet is underutilized in diabetes care. Exercise professionals have 
specialized skills to deliver physical activity interventions, but effective 
interprofessional collaboration for diabetes care requires role clarity. This 
study established the competencies of entry-level physiotherapists and 
kinesiologists for physical activity interventions for diabetes care in primary 
care settings and used these competencies to develop clinical tools to promote 
role clarity in interprofessional care teams.
METHODS: We used a modified Delphi process. Eleven physiotherapy and three 
kinesiology subject matter experts participated in two rounds of Delphi surveys 
to develop discipline and context specific competencies. These competencies were 
used to draft competency profiles and a referral pathway tool. Eleven of the 
participants then participated in a focus group for member-checking of the 
tools. Descriptive statistics and content analysis were used to analyze 
quantitative and qualitative data respectively.
RESULTS: The modified Delphi process resulted in 38 physiotherapy and 27 
kinesiology competencies that identify the distinct roles of physiotherapists 
and kinesiologists in delivering physical activity interventions for diabetes 
care. The physiotherapy competencies describes their unique role in supporting 
people with all types of diabetes to engage in physical activity despite complex 
medical or physical barriers. The kinesiology competencies indicate where these 
professionals may require additional training, especially when working with 
people living with type 1 diabetes or who are pregnant. All developed tools had 
good face validity and were seen to be potentially useful tools by the subject 
matter experts.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings highlight that both physiotherapists and 
kinesiologists have fundamental skills and abilities to deliver physical 
activity interventions to people living with diabetes, but that different 
exercise professionals may be needed depending on the complexity of the clinical 
profile. The developed clinical tools support improved interprofessional 
collaboration by clarifying physiotherapy and kinesiology roles in delivering 
physical activity interventions for diabetes care and highlighting how the two 
distinct professions can contribute to addressing the growing diabetes epidemic 
in primary care.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12875-024-02611-1
PMID: 39407129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]